WORKSHEET
MACHINE LEARNING – WORKSHEET 7
All the questions in this exercise have one or more than one correct answers. Choose all the correct options to answer your questions.
1. Which of the following statements are true regarding SVMs?
A) SVMs use hyperplanes as decision boundary for classification.
B) SVMs uses kernel functions to avoid computational load of converting the whole dataset in to higher
dimensional space where the data is linearly separable.
D) SVMs use hard margin classifier.
2. Consider the radial basis kernel function given below and answer the following question:
k(x, x0) = exp(−γ||x − x0 ||2)
In the above figure we have two curves for two radial basis function with different values of gammas. Which
of these curves has higher values of gamma?
D) cannot be determined from the curve
3. Which of these statements are true regarding the RBF kernel of SVM?
A) The RBF is used to find the linear classifier for the data in to infinite dimensional space.
C) A very high value of gamma may lead to overfitting.
4. Consider the following graph and answer the question given below:
Consider the above figure where triangles represent class A data points and rectangles represent Class B.
Which of the following classifier can be used here?
B) A Soft Margin Linear classifier
WORKSHEET
5. Consider the following image and answer the question:
What will happen if we decrease the value of C, the soft margin constant?
B) The margin width will Increase
6. Consider the following image and answer the question:
Figure A: Figure B:
In the above figure red circles represent class A data points and plus sign represents Class B. Both of the figures
are on the same data. Among the above given figure-A and Figure-B, which of these figure have higher value
of C hyperparameter?
C) Both have same value
7. In the following figures red circles represent Class A data points and plus represent Class B data points. We are using a linear kernel with Degrees D1, D2 and D3 as shown in the figures A, B and C respectively.
Fig A: D1 Degree polynomial Fig B: D2 degree Fig C: D3 degree
margin
margin
WORKSHEET
Now which of the following is true regarding the degrees?
C) D3>D2>D1
8. In the following figures red circles represent Class A data points and plus represent Class B data points. In the below figures we are using RBF kernel with varying degrees Gamma:
Gamma 1 Gamma2
Now choose the correct options:
C) Gamma2 > Gamma 1
9. Let us assume you are using RBF kernel in SVM with a very high Gamma value. What does this signify?
B) The model would consider only the points close to the hyperplane for modelling
10. What would happen when you use very small C (C~0)?
A) A large number of misclassification would happen