NLP – WORKSHEET 4
1. Which of the following are true regarding Context Free Grammars?
A) It consists of a set of production rules
C) These grammars are free of context in which they are used, they will remain same regardless of the context
in which they are used.
2. Advantages of using PCFG over CFG are:
A) All the production rules in PCFG has probability associated with them while in CFG we do not have
Probability of a production rule.
B) With PCFG we can find the most probable parse tree of a sentence which we cannot find CFG.
3. The problem with constituent parsing is:
A) The constituent parsing is more complex
B) The constituent parsing does not work with free word order languages where same meaning can be depicted
with different word order.
4. In order to deal with free word order languages what type of parsing is suitable?
C) Dependency Parsing
5. Which of the following are true regarding Dependency Parsing?
A) It establish dependencies between words of a sentence
B) The dependencies are established in terms of subject-object-verb and other dependencies.
6. Which of the following are techniques for Named Entity Recognition?
A) Chunking
C) unigram chunker D) bigram chunker
7. Which of the following statements are true regarding Unigram chunker for NER?
A) It uses the POS tag of a word and find the most probable IOB label for that POS tag
C) It uses the POS tags of the required word as well as previous word to assign IOB label
8. Which of the following statements are true regarding Unigram chunker for NER?
A) It assigns POS Tags to the words in a sentence
B) It assigns IOB entity label to a word based on the POS tag of the word
9. Which of the following statements are true regarding Bigram chunker for NER?
A) It is a sequential modeling process for assigning POS tags to the word
B) It uses a dictionary of IOB labels to assign a IOB entity label
D) The IOB label which occurs most frequently for a given pair of POS tags is assigned
WORKSHEET
10. Which of the following technique uses a dictionary to extract an entity?
A) Unigram chunker B) Bigram chunker
11. Which of the following are preprocessing steps in Information Extraction Systems?
A) Word Tokenization
D) POS tagging
12. Which of the following cases require NER (Named Entity Recognition)?
B) Chat Bot creation
C) A flight booking system which books flights for a customer according to information given by him in query
13. Which of the following is true regarding Top-Down parsing?
D) All of the above
14. Consider the following string and tell what should be the pattern to extract all #tags
String = “there should be justice for #sushant #singh @rindia”
Import re
Re.search(pattern, string)
A) pattern = “#\w*”
15. Consider the following string and tell what should be the pattern to extract the mention (@rindia) only
String = “there should be justice for #sushant #singh @rindia”
Import re
Re.search(pattern, string)
C) pattern = “@\w*”