NLP WORKSHEET-3
1. Which of the following reduce a word to its base form by cutting off the suffix?
A) Lancaster Stemmer B) Porter Stemmer
C) Snowball Stemmer

2. We need to perform stemming and lemmatization so that:
A) All the words can be reduced to their base form

3. Stemming and Lemmatization belongs to which of the following step in NLP?
C) Lexical Processing

4. Which of the following is/are example of shallow parsing?
A) POS tagging B) Chunking

5. Which of the following are true regarding Lexicon Based taggers?
B) These taggers also use tag of the previous word to find the tag of the word.
C) These taggers take in to account the context in which the word is used to assign a tag.

6. Which of the following taggers uses predefined rules to assign tags?
B) Stochastic Rule taggers
C) Rule Based Taggers

7. Which of the following is /are true regarding HMM based POS tagger?
B) It uses tag of only the previous word to determine the tag of the current word.

8. What does the transition probability refer in to HMM bases POS tagging algorithm?
A) The transition probabilities refer to probabilities of transitioning from one tag to another tag.

9. Which of the following are terminal symbols in the following Context-Free Grammar? S -> NP VP
NP -> DT N| N| N PP VP -> V| V NP
N -> ‘man’| ‘bear’ V -> ‘ate’
DT -> ‘the’| ‘a’
B) ‘ate’
C) VP D) NP

10. In which of the cases Hidden Markov Model can be used?
B) POS tagging
C) Word Tokenization

11. Which of the following is/are used to get the grammatical construction of the sentence?
A) POS tagging D) HMM based POS tagging

12. Which of the following are the approaches of constituency parsing?
A) Top-Down Parsing B) Bottom-up Parsing

13. Which of the following is true regarding Top-Down parsing?
A) It starts with start symbol S.
C) It starts with sentence and then we reduce it to the S symbol.

14. Which of the following statements are true regarding shift reduce parser algorithm?
A) We start with start symbol S, then we use production rules of CFG and reach the sentence in the end.
C) In this algorithm we start from the sentence, take one word at a time from the sentence shift it to the stack or reduce the words present in the stack by using CFG rules, until we reach the S start symbol.

15. Which of the following are true regarding Chomsky Normal Form?
B) The production rules can be written only in a particular way as defined by a set of rules.

16. In Which of the following text processing technique we will remove stopwords as a preprocessing?
C) Count-vectorization to create BOW for lexical level analysis.