1.Bernoulli random variables take (only) the values 1 and 0.
a) True

2.Which of the following theorem states that the distribution of averages of iid variables, properly normalized,
becomes that of a standard normal as the sample size increases?
a) Central Limit Theorem

3.Which of the following is incorrect with respect to use of Poisson distribution?
b) Modeling bounded count data

4.Point out the correct statement
d) All of the mentioned

5.__________ random variables are used to model rates
c) Poisson

6.Usually replacing the standard error by its estimated value does change the CLT.
b) False

7.Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data?
b) Hypothesis

8.Normalized data are centered at ___ and have units equal to standard deviations of the original data.
q)0

9.Which of the following statement is incorrect with respect to outliers?
c) Outliers cannot conform to the regression relationship

10.What do you understand by the term Normal Distribution?
Normal distribution, also known as the Gaussian distribution, is a probability distribution
that is symmetric about the mean, showing that data near the mean are more frequent in
occurrence than data far from the mean. In graph form, normal distribution will appear as a bell curve.

11.How do you handle missing data? What imputation techniques do you recommend?
There are many ways one could handle missing data 
Some specific ways of handling this with imputation are :
Imputation with mean : Missing data is replaced by mean of the column
Imputation with median : Missing data is replaced by mean of the column
Imputation with Mode: Missing data is replaced with mode of the column
Imputation with linear regression : With real valued data, this is a common technique. 
The missing value is replaced by performing linear regression based on the other feature values.
Random Forest : Random forest is a non-parametric imputation method applicable to various variable
types that works well with both data missing at random and not missing at random. 
Random forest uses multiple decision trees to estimate missing values and outputs 
\OOB (out of bag) imputation error estimates. 

The following are common methods:
1.Mean imputation. Simply calculate the mean of the observed values for that 
variable for all individuals who are non-missing
Substitution
2.Hot deck imputation
3.Cold deck imputation
4.Regression imputation
5.Stochastic regression imputation
6.Interpolation and extrapolation

12.What is A/B testing
A/B testing is basically statistical hypothesis testing, or, in other words, statistical inference. 
It is an analytical method for making decisions that estimates population parameters based on sample statistics

13.Is mean imputation of missing data acceptable practice?

14.What is linear regression in statistics?
Simple linear regression is a statistical method that allows us to summarize and 
study relationships between two continuous (quantitative) variables:
One variable, denoted x, is regarded as the predictor, explanatory, or independent variable.
The other variable, denoted y, is regarded as the response, outcome, or dependent variable

15.What are the various branches of statistics
The two main branches of statistics are descriptive statistics and inferential statistics.