MACHINE LEARNING – WORKSHEET 4

1. Which of the following in sklearn library is used for hyper parameter tuning?
A) GridSearchCV()

2. In which of the below ensemble techniques trees are trained in parallel?
D) All of the above

3. In machine learning, if in the below line of code:
sklearn.svm.SVC (C=1.0, kernel='rbf', degree=3)
we increasing the C hyper parameter, what will happen?
A) The regularization will increase

4. Check the below line of code and answer the following questions:
sklearn.tree.DecisionTreeClassifier(*, criterion='gini', splitter='best', max_depth=None, min_samples_split=2)
Which of the following is true regarding max_depth hyper parameter?
A) It regularizes the decision tree by limiting the maximum depth up to which a tree can be grown.

5. Which of the following is true regarding Random Forests?
C) In case of classification problem, the prediction is made by taking mode of the class labels predicted by the component trees.

6. What can be the disadvantage if the learning rate is very high in gradient descent?
C) Both of them

7. As the model complexity increases, what will happen?
A) Bias will increase, Variance decrease

8. Suppose I have a linear regression model which is performing as follows:
Train accuracy=0.95
Test accuracy=0.75
Which of the following is true regarding the model?
B) model is overfitting

9. Suppose we have a dataset which have two classes A and B. The percentage of class A is 40% and percentage of class B is 60%. Calculate the Gini index and entropy of the dataset.

10. What are the advantages of Random Forests over Decision Tree?
Random forests are a strong modeling technique and much more robust than a single decision tree. They aggregate many decision trees to limit overfitting as well as error due to bias and therefore yield useful results.

11. What is the need of scaling all numerical features in a dataset? Name any two techniques used for scaling.
If we don't scale the data, the model will give more weightage to certain independant variable than it is suppossed to.
Standard Scaler and Robust Scaler are two scaling techniques.

12. Write down some advantages which scaling provides in optimization using gradient descent algorithm.

13. In case of a highly imbalanced dataset for a classification problem, is accuracy a good metric to measure the performance of the model. If not, why?

14. What is “f-score" metric? Write its mathematical formula.

15. What is the difference between fit(), transform() and fit_transform()?
fit() will fit the data into a model
transform() will give the output by the model as per the data that was fitted
fit_transform() will fit the data and give the output in one line of code using the model